situated in a remote corner of devon is
a company driving a revolution in green
energy wood energy limited uses the high
efficiency of the latest in biomass
boiler technology to replace fossil fuel
boilers often in large scale
applications the wood energy
headquarters practices what it preaches
heated by wood chips burned at very high
efficiency there's the occasional whiff
of wood smoke outside but not a trace of
smoke once the boiler is burning from
this office wood energy supplies a
turnkey solution for biomass heating we
felt from right from the beginning that
we had to build the design capability
in-house so we've got now got design
engineers of a drawing office
installation engineers and service
engineers the goal is to make biomass as
convenient as fossil fuels we're trying
to make the system's emulate fossil fuel
installations in terms of convenience in
terms of impact into the core activity
of whatever the client's business is we
we need to make the machines and their
fuel deliveries and everything else as
as not in impacting as possible one of
the company's installations is just down
the road a 250 kilowatt wood chip boiler
in a rural location where the only
alternative is oil as a fuel wood chip
has certain characteristics the thing
with wood chip is wood chip as you can
see will just sit there in a heap it
needs to be agitated to get it to fall
so this disk in the middle is what's
called the agitator and it revolves with
the arm sweeping out to sweep the chip
the boiler monitors the oxygen content
and adjust the airflow for optimal
burning it heats a luxury 10 bedroom
Lodge I always had an interest and
rarely felt that some idiot had to set
the ball rolling and so as Robyn was on
the doorstep and provides a very
efficient service we basically worked
together people who come to stay and we
eat in fact 44 bed spaces including my
son's house over there our own house the
various flats and offices and such like
the wood-burning boiler has been so
reliable that the oil unit Alec bought
as a backup has gathered dust I should
have listened to Robin he said don't get
one you won't need it which surprisingly
was totally true we're not talking about
logs on fires here which were a very
high efficiency automatic hands-free low
maintenance technology so we're it's
fundamentally different from an open
fire efficiencies of more than 90
percent make the high-tech wood boilers
attractive for large installations like
Bristol City Council's nursery
the boiler is heating the accumulator
tank just full of water and is going
through the pipes underground and out to
deep the greenhouses
it means this waste from woodland
management can be used as fuel replacing
LPG and oil it's a local resource you
have to use it locally you can't you
can't bring it in from from 50 miles
away because it's only becomes an
economic so it kind of helps local
economy because you've got other you've
got local people being employed to do
the processing the wood ship and the
growing of the of the woodland as well
this devon sawmill is proving biomass is
good for business by turning waste into
wood pellets for specialist boilers it
invested in a pellet mill to turn the
waste into high density wood fuel
pellets when you look at pellets the
hole is costly it's quite minimal but
when you look at wood chip the hardest
cost can be as much as 30% the market
for wood chip has knock-on effects for
the rural economy giving value to the
low-grade wood thinnings it's hoped will
increase the amount of managed woodland